Custom Property Schema Docs (#767)
DevCycleHQ/devcycle-docs: docs/platform/advanced-targeting/custom-properties.md

**Special Users**. Sometimes organizations want to release a feature to special users only, such as users with a paid membership, those with a free trial, or those who have made large contributions to the company. In this case, some property name suggestions are `accountType` `pricingPlan` `isSubscriber` `isTrialUser` `amountContributed` etc.

**User Behaviour or Preferences.** You can experiment on users based on their behaviour or preferences. Some examples include `numberOfPageVisits` `gaveConsent` `preferredColor` etc.

## Custom Property Schemas

> Similar to [Variable Schemas](/platform/advanced-variables/variable-schemas.md), Custom Property Schemas allow you to set up a schema and define a list of possible values for a custom property, which will appear in a dropdown when setting up Targeting Rules. Labels can be defined for each value to make selections more human-readable and easier to identify. This removes the need to remember valid inputs for a specific custom property.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Similar to [Variable Schemas](/platform/advanced-variables/variable-schemas.md), Custom Property Schemas allow you to set up a schema and define a list of possible values for a Custom Property, which will appear in a dropdown when setting up Targeting Rules. Labels can be defined for each value to make selections more human-readable and easier to identify. This removes the need to remember valid inputs for a specific custom property.
```

> Similar to [Variable Schemas](/platform/advanced-variables/variable-schemas.md), Custom Property Schemas allow you to set up a schema and define a list of possible values for a custom property, which will appear in a dropdown when setting up Targeting Rules. Labels can be defined for each value to make selections more human-readable and easier to identify. This removes the need to remember valid inputs for a specific custom property.

Reviewer: maybe include an image of what the targeting rules dropdown looks like here?

Author: @ajwootto hmm.. i did?

Reviewer: oh okay, i cant see the preview :)

> Similar to [Variable Schemas](/platform/advanced-variables/variable-schemas.md), Custom Property Schemas allow you to set up a schema and define a list of possible values for a custom property, which will appear in a dropdown when setting up Targeting Rules. Labels can be defined for each value to make selections more human-readable and easier to identify. This removes the need to remember valid inputs for a specific custom property.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Similar to [Variable Schemas](/platform/advanced-variables/variable-schemas.md), Custom Property Schemas allow you to set up a schema and define a list of possible values for a custom property, which will appear in a dropdown when setting up Targeting Rules. Labels can be defined for each value to make selections more human-readable and easier to identify. This prevents mistakes when configuring targeting rules by ensuring you're selecting a valid value for a Custom Property. It also removes the need to remember what a value represents.
```

> At DevCycle, we use this feature to easily enable features for certain organizations without needing to double-check the client database or Auth0 for the correct organization ID.

Reviewer: it's a good idea to provide a concrete example but I feel like this is too specific to how things work for us internally, especially with the mentions of the client database and Auth0

Author: ```suggestion
At DevCycle, we use this feature to easily enable features for certain organizations without needing to double-check for the correct organization ID.
```

Author: @ajwootto better? or do you want me do to completely diff use case?

Reviewer: something like that is better but I think it still takes a few leaps of understanding to realize that we're passing an organization ID as a custom property, and then we need to know what specific org that ID represents so we can target by their human-readable name

Author: ```suggestion
At DevCycle, we pass each organization's ID as a Custom Property that we use to turn on Features for specific customers. Schemas allow us to set up allowable organization ID values, along with their human-readable names, which makes it easy to set up Targeting Rules without needing to double-check for a correct organization ID.
```

Author: @ajwootto better?

![Custom Property Schema Targeting Rule](/oct-2024-cust-prop-schema-targ-rule.png)

### Setting Up a Custom Property Schema 

> You can find a list of all existing Custom Properties in the Project Settings section of your [Settings page](/https://app.devcycle.com/o/r/settings). 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can find a list of all existing Custom Properties in the Project Settings section of your [Settings page](https://app.devcycle.com/r/settings). 
```

![Custom Property Section on Settings Page](/oct-2024-cust-prop-settings-page.png)

To add a schema to a Custom Property, click on the Custom Property you want to modify. On the Custom Property Details page, locate the Schema section. Schemas can be added to Custom Properties that are already in use.

![Schema Section on Details Page](/oct-2024-schema-on-cust-prop-det-page.png)

> From there, select an Enum Schema from the dropdown. This allows you to specify allowable values for a string or number Custom Property type.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
From there, select an Enum Schema from the dropdown. This allows you to specify allowable values for string or number properties.
```

> If you want to require this property to be set when passing custom data to the SDK, click the toggle icon next to Property Required.

Reviewer: need to mention the type generator stuff here because that's the only context where this applies

Author: @ajwootto can you help write a little blurb on that pls & ty? :)

Reviewer: Maybe just add "Currently this only affects the output of our [type generators](https://docs.devcycle.com/sdk/client-side-sdks/javascript/javascript-typescript)

Author: ```suggestion
If you want to require this property to be set when passing custom data to the SDK, click the toggle icon next to Property Required. *Note: currently, this only affects the output of our [type generators](/sdk/client-side-sdks/javascript/javascript-typescript). 
```

Author: @ajwootto updated!

Reviewer: @katemacfarlane did you apply the change?

Author: @ajwootto  - no i didn't bc i wanted you to take a look at if first

Reviewer: oh i see. Looks good :)

Once you select an Enum Schema type, define the allowable values in the Allowed Values section below.

> If desired, you can permit additional values to be entered in Targeting Rules that aren't directly defined in the schema. For example, if I defined three options—Alberta, Quebec, and Ontario—in the Allowed Values section and toggled this option on, I wouldn’t be limited to those three values, even though they would appear in the Custom Property value dropdown.

Reviewer: probably avoid first-person voicing here?

Also more specifically what this does is allow you to enter other values in the custom property dropdown on targeting rules form. Normally you can only select from the list

Author: ```suggestion
If desired, you can turn on the `Allow Additional Values` setting that will permit additional values to be used in Targeting Rules that aren't directly defined in that Custom Property's schema. Normally, you can only select from the dropdown list on the Targeting Rule form, but this allows you to enter other values for the Custom Property. 

For example, if you defined three options—Alberta, Quebec, and Ontario—in the Allowed Values section and toggled this option on, you wouldn’t be limited to those three values, even though they would appear in the Custom Property value dropdown. 
```

Author: @ajwootto look okay?

Reviewer: `If desired, you can turn on the `Allow Additional Values` setting, which will permit additional values to be used in Targeting Rules that aren't directly defined in that Custom Property's schema.`

Reviewer: how about just that? added a comma and just removed the second sentence cuz it's kinda just restating the first sentence

Author: ```suggestion
If desired, you can turn on the Allow Additional Values setting, which will permit additional values to be used in Targeting Rules that aren't directly defined in that Custom Property's schema. 

For example, if you defined three options—Alberta, Quebec, and Ontario—in the Allowed Values section and toggled this option on, you wouldn’t be limited to those three values, even though they appear in the Custom Property value dropdown.
```

Author: @ajwootto updated!

At DevCycle, we pass each organization's ID as a Custom Property that we use to turn on Features for specific customers. Schemas allow us to set up allowable organization ID values, along with their human-readable names, which makes it easy to set up Targeting Rules without needing to double-check for a correct organization ID.

![Custom Property Schema Targeting Rule](/oct-2024-cust-prop-schema-targ-rule.png)

### Setting Up a Custom Property Schema 

You can find a list of all existing Custom Properties in the Project Settings section of your [Settings page](https://app.devcycle.com/r/settings). 

![Custom Property Section on Settings Page](/oct-2024-cust-prop-settings-page.png)

To add a schema to a Custom Property, click on the Custom Property you want to modify. On the Custom Property Details page, locate the Schema section. Schemas can be added to Custom Properties that are already in use.

![Schema Section on Details Page](/oct-2024-schema-on-cust-prop-det-page.png)

From there, select an Enum Schema from the dropdown. This allows you to specify allowable values for string or number properties.

> If you want to require this property to be set when passing custom data to the SDK, click the toggle icon next to Property Required. *Note: currently, this only affects the output of our [type generators](/sdk/client-side-sdks/javascript/javascript-typescript). 

Author: ```suggestion
If you want to require this property to be set when passing custom data to the SDK, click the toggle icon next to Property Required. 

Enabling Property Required provides an additional safeguard when passing user data into the SDK. When enabled, TypeScript enforces that a specified property, such as org_id, is present in the custom data. If any custom property flagged as required is missing, the SDK will generate a TypeScript error during development, alerting you to missing data essential for your targeting rules to work correctly in the dashboard.

Example Scenario: If `organization_id` is a required property for your targeting rules to function properly, any attempt to identify users without this property will cause a TypeScript error in your editor, ensuring you don’t unintentionally leave it out.

This error will display as a TypeScript error in the code editor (e.g., VS Code) without needing specific IDE extensions, as the enforcement is embedded directly into the type definitions generated by the SDK.
 
*Note: currently, this only affects the output of our [type generators](/sdk/client-side-sdks/javascript/javascript-typescript). 
```

**Special Users**. Sometimes organizations want to release a feature to special users only, such as users with a paid membership, those with a free trial, or those who have made large contributions to the company. In this case, some property name suggestions are `accountType` `pricingPlan` `isSubscriber` `isTrialUser` `amountContributed` etc.

**User Behaviour or Preferences.** You can experiment on users based on their behaviour or preferences. Some examples include `numberOfPageVisits` `gaveConsent` `preferredColor` etc.

## Custom Property Schemas

> Similar to [Variable Schemas](/platform/advanced-variables/variable-schemas.md), Custom Property Schemas allow you to set up a schema and define a list of possible values for a Custom Property, which will appear in a dropdown when setting up Targeting Rules. Labels can be defined for each value to make selections more human-readable and easier to identify. This removes the need to remember valid inputs for a specific custom property.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Similar to [Variable Schemas](/platform/advanced-variables/variable-schemas.md), Custom Property Schemas allow you to set up a schema and define a list of possible values for a Custom Property, which will appear in a dropdown when setting up Targeting Rules. Labels can be defined for each value to make selections more human-readable and easier to identify. This removes the need to remember valid inputs for a specific Custom Property.
```

At DevCycle, we pass each organization's ID as a Custom Property that we use to turn on Features for specific customers. Schemas allow us to set up allowable organization ID values, along with their human-readable names, which makes it easy to set up Targeting Rules without needing to double-check for a correct organization ID.

![Custom Property Schema Targeting Rule](/oct-2024-cust-prop-schema-targ-rule.png)

### Setting Up a Custom Property Schema 

You can find a list of all existing Custom Properties in the Project Settings section of your [Settings page](https://app.devcycle.com/r/settings). 

![Custom Property Section on Settings Page](/oct-2024-cust-prop-settings-page.png)

To add a schema to a Custom Property, click on the Custom Property you want to modify. On the Custom Property Details page, locate the Schema section. Schemas can be added to Custom Properties that are already in use.

![Schema Section on Details Page](/oct-2024-schema-on-cust-prop-det-page.png)

From there, select an Enum Schema from the dropdown. This allows you to specify allowable values for string or number properties.

> If you want to require this property to be set when passing custom data to the SDK, click the toggle icon next to Property Required. 

Author: ```suggestion
If you want to require this property to be set when passing custom data to the SDK, click the toggle icon next to Property Required.  Enabling Property Required provides an additional safeguard when passing user data into the SDK.

Currently, this setting only affects the output of our [type generators](/sdk/client-side-sdks/javascript/javascript-typescript).  If any custom property flagged as required is missing, the SDK will generate a TypeScript error during development, alerting you to missing data essential for your targeting rules to work correctly in the dashboard.```

> Enabling Property Required provides an additional safeguard when passing user data into the SDK. When enabled, TypeScript enforces that a specified property, such as org_id, is present in the custom data. If any custom property flagged as required is missing, the SDK will generate a TypeScript error during development, alerting you to missing data essential for your targeting rules to work correctly in the dashboard.

Reviewer: i would move all this stuff inside the notice about how it affects type generators

> Enabling Property Required provides an additional safeguard when passing user data into the SDK. When enabled, TypeScript enforces that a specified property, such as org_id, is present in the custom data. If any custom property flagged as required is missing, the SDK will generate a TypeScript error during development, alerting you to missing data essential for your targeting rules to work correctly in the dashboard.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Enabling Property Required provides an additional safeguard when passing user data into Typescript-based SDKs. When enabled, TypeScript enforces that the property is present in custom data. If any Custom Property flagged as required is missing, the SDK will generate a TypeScript error to alert you about missing data.
```

Author: @ajwootto  - addressed this lower down

> Example Scenario: If `organization_id` is a required property for your targeting rules to function properly, any attempt to identify users without this property will cause a TypeScript error in your editor, ensuring you don’t unintentionally leave it out.

Reviewer: this isn't a very illuminating example IMO, I'd just remove it

This error will display as a TypeScript error in the code editor (e.g., VS Code) without needing specific IDE extensions, as the enforcement is embedded directly into the type definitions generated by the SDK.
 

> *Note: currently, this only affects the output of our [type generators](/sdk/client-side-sdks/javascript/javascript-typescript). 

Author: ```suggestion
```
